+++
title = 'On Religion and Secularism'
date = 2024-09-16T16:58:34-05:00
draft = false
+++

It has long been my view that religion and government must be separate. Let me explain why. To be quite plain, everyone believes there is one or more correct ways to live life as a human. Some people are very free-spirited and open-minded, and they do not impose their beliefs onto others. Others are very dogmatic, and they believe others should live like them. The fact of the matter is we can't quite let everyone do whatever the hell they want, right? Otherwise, really evil and mean people could do bad things to people. But if we restrict people too much, we might lose really important things too, like curiosity, artistry, and self-expression. Allowing people to express their thoughts and emotions is really important because it's how we let each other know when we're happy or sad, or when we've come up with a really cool idea (like a new tool!). Freedom of expression, and more generally Liberty, helps people have better lives.  

One really nice thing about religion is that it gives us a framework by which to live our lives. Religions are complicated and very different from each other, but most of them have some sort of moral framework. Adherents of that religion must follow these religious laws because, according to that religion, it's the moral thing to do. But what if you don't believe in that religion? What if you believe in another religion, or don't believe in any religion at all? After all, belief is something largely out of our hands, as *forcing* oneself to believe something is arguably just tricking oneself. Since belief is out of our control, we shouldn't be forced to do things by people from a religion to which we do not subscribe. Here's my first argument for why religious laws should not be instituted into our governments under the pretense of "universal morality". 

My second argument is that from a functional, or practical, point of view, it's becoming increasingly less tenable to impose religion into government. Why? Well, the world is becoming more interconnected with globalization, and that means that more and more people from different faiths and cultures are migrating and visiting each other's countries. HELLOOOO