+++ 
title = "New Years Resolutions" 
date = "2025-01-04" 
draft = false 
+++

I recently read an article in the Wall Street Journal (fantastic journal by the way) about how New Years resolutions don't work most of the time; usually our resolutions fail pretty quickly, which is perhaps why as a society we make fun of idea. I've seen many memes with the phrase "New year new, new me" pointing out the comical absurdity of trying to transform ourselves completely overnight, erasing all our bad habits and replacing them with new ones. And I mean, there is a silliness in this idea that the new year will be that one extra push we need to make those positive changes in our lives. Certainly whatever is impeding us from getting to our personal goals will not be fixed by this astral event, no matter how much importance (we don't give it much in America) we might pretend to give it. 

And yet for some reason the change of the new year gives people a sense of hope and over-charged optimism which I have always found strange. Really guys, it's just a new year. Nothing has changed except a change in the last digit of the number we use to keep track of time. The New Year doesn't even commemorate an important historical or religious event like Christmas, or have a cool theme like Halloween. It's just a generic holiday with fireworks and cheesy pop concerts by 70 year-olds. At least where my family's from there's a cool tradition with bells where you go and ring them out in the streets after midnight and you can hear the whole neighborhood ringing with bells (also from the churches). 

But enough about my hate on New Years. I think I'm just a New Years hater. While I don't consider arbitrarily choosing a time of the year to be the start of the year to be something inherently worth celebrating (importantly, unlike the winter solstice or the spring equinox which DO have intrinsic value since they symbolize the peak of each season) I do sympathize with the good-vibes, positive-intent environment of New Years. I get it. We're trying to start fresh. Blank slate, clean, a good beginning to the year. But I guess my main argument here is that it makes more sense to think of the New Year not as a new beginning but a continuation of the previous year, and the year before that, and so on. At least for me, the New Year is not nearly so important as for example the end of my school year, or my semester, or starting to go to college. Those were definitely more important events in my life. And so, I think for me, it makes more sense to think of New Year less as a "new" year and more as a continuation of life before and an opportunity to reflect on my life. 

What I'm trying to get at is that new years resolutions are usually kind of pathetic and half-hearted and people kind of don't take them seriously because of that. Rome wasn't built in one day, and really what I've realized is that simple habit-making is the only way to actually change a pattern in my life. The article on the WSJ talked about going to the gym as a common New Years resolution. Well, I told myself a couple months ago I'd start going to the gym, and after the first time I didn't go back. Why? Because I didn't force myself to just go to the gym. I over thought it and rationalized why I didn't need to go to the gym and therefore I didn't go to the gym. The key is to force yourself to do the activity for one day, then the next, then the next... Eventually, you will have created a feedback loop. An engine that won't stop. That's how one gets oneself to do things. It's the same thing with leisure activities. There's no point in trying to enjoy reading by picking up a book one day if the next day you decide not to read. Building reading skills and therefore enjoyment takes time. It's the same with music. Enjoying it takes time. The difference is music is a little easier to consume than most forms of reading—I would argue. 

This previous semester I told myself I'd learn how to cook by forcing myself to do it: I would start living off-campus in an apartment without a meal plan and not buy take-out. With these rules and constraints in place, I had no option but to cook, as otherwise I would feel like I was breaking my norm. Maybe there are people who have the self-discipline to skip out on a habit while forming it and still successfully do it, but in my case I think it doesn't work at all unless I'm strict with myself. So yeah, I actually cooked for myself (I mean in this case the motivation was quite strong. If I didn't make myself food I would die. Meanwhile I can break my habit of reading with no immediate consequence to my self.) and I'm pretty happy with myself. I've learned to enjoy the many benefits of cooking: personal satisfaction, eating what I want, socializing with my roommates, saving money, etc. Now, I think I'm going to move on to working out as my next personal goal. I think it's going to be harder than cooking precisely because I don't need to do it to survive, but I think using the same strategy, just doing it without knowing what I'm doing and asking experience people for help, will work. At first I was just cooking the same meal over and over again. Simple but effective meals. I'll apply the same model to working out. Simple exercise daily with the help of my friends.

But I think an important thing to think about is justifying why I want to work out. I think I might have a slight self-image problem. I think I think I'm too skinny. And that's stupid, because I know plenty of people who think they are too fat. So I think I will have to deal with that self-image issue separately since I can always have that issue regardless of how I look (remember there are really fit and beautiful people who also deal with these issues). But I think part of the reason why I want to work out is because I want to see what my body is capable of. And also I think working out is like practicing painting or reading or singing. It's an art, in a way. Your body is a canvas, or a temple as people say, and there's a certain intrinsic beauty in molding it into a well-hewn form. I'm thinking about the ancient Greeks and what they thought of the idealized human body. Well, there is this idea that training your body to climb, run, and jump better is intrinsically good. It feels good, that's for sure, and it looks good too.  The form of a fit body is beautiful and so is the act of it performing exercise. Well, actually, maybe not all the time. Those Tour de France motherfuckers are ugly as hell. They look like aliens. But maybe they're beautiful aliens. Anyways. I'm not sure I've fully convinced myself that I actually care about having a "well-sculpted" body. You know what? I actually think I care more about doing cool things with my body. Like going hiking, and biking, and running, and playing soccer and tennis. I don't care that much about how my body looks as long it feels and looks healthy, and I think healthy looks different for different people. 
