+++
title = 'On Religion and Secularism'
date = 2024-09-16T16:58:34-05:00
draft = false
+++

It has long been my view that religion and government must be separate. Let me explain why. To be quite plain, everyone believes there is one or more correct ways to live life as a human. Some people are very free-spirited and open-minded, and they do not impose their beliefs onto others. Others are very dogmatic, and they believe others should live like them. The fact of the matter is we can't quite let everyone do whatever the hell they want, right? Otherwise, really evil and mean people could do bad things to people. But if we restrict people too much, we might lose really important things too, like curiosity, artistry, and self-expression. Allowing people to express their thoughts and emotions is really important because it's how we let each other know when we're happy or sad, or when we've come up with a really cool idea (like a new tool!). Freedom of expression, and more generally Liberty, helps people have better lives.  

One really nice thing about religion is that it gives us a framework by which to live our lives. Religions are complicated and very different from each other, but most of them have some sort of moral framework. Adherents of that religion must follow these religious laws because, according to that religion, it's the moral thing to do. But what if you don't believe in that religion? What if you believe in another religion, or don't believe in any religion at all? After all, belief is something largely out of our hands, as *forcing* oneself to believe something is arguably just tricking oneself. Since belief is out of our control, we shouldn't be forced to do things by people from a religion to which we do not subscribe. Here's my first argument for why religious laws should not be instituted into our governments under the pretense of "universal morality". 

My second argument is that from a functional, or practical, point of view, it's becoming increasingly less tenable to impose religion into government. Why? Well, the world is becoming more interconnected with globalization, and that means that more and more people from different faiths and cultures are migrating and visiting each other's countries. That means more people with different religious beliefs in the same place. Result? You can't create a state religion without pissing some people off, since they don't believe in that stuff. Again, instead we should focus on a secular / non-religious state in which there are no religion-based laws (except freedom of religion of course). 

My third argument, is I hope the most convincing one, and it's that religion is not necessary at all in order to have a good, moral society. As my old mentor said, there is very little difference in the moral message of Aristotle and Jesus. The things, the moral teachings, that people have believed and continue to believe about Christianity (whether you are a practicing Christian or not) are the same as those of Aristotle. Why? Because we have come to realize through experience and logic that they are the best and most ethical way to live. Now, those teachings that many modern people have come to reject about Christianity and certain of its denominations, like anti-contraception, women belonging in the kitchen, men being superior to women, beating your kids, is a result of people lifting the veil of blind belief as a result of the Enlightenment. It's the same Aristotle. We recognize now that many of his teachings rang true then and continue to ring true now. But that doesn't make him infallible, and we should always question what he said. But what did Aristotle and Jesus say? Well, they both said to be kind to others, to respect people, and to cultivate friendship and moral virtue. While they might had differences of opinion, I think both would agree that killing, robbing, and pillaging are bad, and sharing, helping, and building things is good. I really doubt you could become a bad person if you followed the true teachings of both of these moral teachers, and so, I tell you, my good reader or listener, you don't need to be a Christian, Muslism, or Jew to be a good person. You can be a student of moral philosophy, of humanism. Or you can be both, or all the above like Pi.
